Font attributes

The commands above should give you sufficient control over fonts. If you don't want to know more at the moment then turn to section 4

Every text font in LATEX has five attributes:

encoding
    This specifies the order that characters appear in the font. The most common values for the font encoding is OT1. 
family
    The name for a collection of fonts, usually grouped under a common name by the font foundry. For example, 
	`Adobe Times' and Knuth's `Computer Modern Roman' are font families. There are far too many font families to list them all, but some common ones are:

     
    Internal fontname 	Fontname 	In ljmr1?
    cmr 	Computer Modern Roman 	No
    cmss 	Computer Modern Sans 	No
    cmtt 	Computer Modern Typewriter 	No
    cmm 	Computer Modern Math Italic 	No
    cmsy 	Computer Modern Math Symbols 	No
    cmex 	Computer Modern Math Extensions 	No
    ptm 	Adobe Times 	Yes
    phv 	Adobe Helvetica 	Yes
    pcr 	Adobe Courier 	Yes
    pun 	Univers 	No
    ppl 	Palatino 	Yes
    pagk 	AvantGarde-Book 	Yes
    pagd 	AvantGarde-Demi 	Yes
    pbk 	Bookman 	Yes
    put 	Utopia 	No
    pop 	Optima 	No
    pnc 	New Century Schoolbook 	Yes
    pzd 	ZapfDingbats 	Yes
    rpad 	Garamond 	No

series
    How heavy or expanded a font is. For example, `medium weight', `narrow' and `bold extended' are all series. The most common values for the font series are:

    m 	Medium
    b 	Bold
    bx 	Bold extended
    sb 	Semi-bold
    c 	Condensed


shape
    The form of the letters within a font family. For example, `italic', `oblique' and `upright' are all font shapes. The most common values for the font shape are:

    n 	Normal (that is `upright' or `roman')
    it 	Italic
    sl 	Slanted (or `oblique')
    sc 	Caps and small caps


size
    The design size of the font, for example `10pt'.

These five parameters specify every LATEX font, for example:
  	Font
OT1 	cmr 	m 	n 	10pt 	Computer Modern Roman 10pt
OT1 	cmss 	m 	sl 	12pt 	Computer Modern Sans Oblique 12pt
OML 	cmm 	m 	it 	10pt 	Computer Modern Math Italic 10pt
T1 	ptm 	b 	it 	18pt 	Adobe Times Bold Italic 18pt
